.TH TOXIC.CONF 5 "June 2014" "Toxic v__VERSION__" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
toxic.conf \- Configuration file for toxic(1)
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I toxic.conf
file is the main configuration file for
.BR toxic (1)
client.
.SH SYNTAX
.I <SECTION>
.B = {
.PP
.IB <KEY1> = <VALUE1> ;
.br
.IB <KEY2> = <VALUE2> ;
.br
 ...
.PP
.B };
.PP
Uses syntax accepted by libconfig.
.br
Lines starting with "//" are comments and will be ignored.
.PP
Sections:
.PP
.B ui
.RS
Configurations related to user interface elements.
.PP
Keys:
.br
.B timestamps
.RS
Enable or disable timestamps.
.br
Values: 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
.RE
.PP
.B alerts
.RS
Enable or disable terminal alerts on events.
.br
Values: 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
.RE
.PP
.B native_colors
.RS
Select between native terminal colors and toxic color theme.
.br
Values: 'true' for terminal colours, 'false' for toxic colours
.RE
.PP
.B autolog
.RS
Enable or disable autologging.
.br
Values: 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
.RE
.PP
.B time_format
.RS
Select between 24 and 12 hour time.
.br
Values: 24, 12
.RE
.PP
.B show_typing_other
.RS
Show you when others are typing in a 1-on-1 chat
.br
Values: 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
.RE
.PP
.B show_typing_self
.RS
Show others when you're typing in a 1-on-1 chat
.br
Values: 'true' to enable, 'false' to disable
.RE
.PP
.B history_size
.RS
Maximum lines for chat window history.
.br
Values: <INTEGER> (for example: 700)
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B audio
.RS
Configurations related to audio devices.
.PP
Keys:
.br
.B input_device
.RS
Audio input device.
.br
Values: <INTEGER> (number correspond to "/lsdev in")
.RE
.PP
.B output_device
.RS
Audio output device.
.br
Values: <INTEGER> (number correspond to "/lsdev out")
.RE
.PP
.B VAD_treshold
.RS
Voice Activity Detection treshold.
.br
Values: <FLOAT> (recommended values are around 40.0)
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B tox
.RS
Configurations related to file transfer.
.PP
Keys:
.br
.B download_path
.RS
Default path for downloads.
.br
Values: <STRING> (absolute path where to store downloaded files)
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B sounds
.RS
Configurations related to notification sounds.
.br
(Special value "silent" can be used to disable a specific notification)
.PP
Keys:
.br
.B error
.RS
Sound to play when an error occurs.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B self_log_in
.RS
Sound to play when you log in.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B self_log_out
.RS
Sound to play when you log out.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B user_log_in
.RS
Sound to play when a contact become online.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B user_log_out
.RS
Sound to play when a contact become offline.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B call_incoming
.RS
Sound to play when you receive an incoming call.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B call_outgoing
.RS
Sound to play when you start a call.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B generic_message
.RS
Sound to play when an event occurs.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B transfer_pending
.RS
Sound to play when you receive a file transfer request.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.PP
.B transfer_completed
.RS
Sound to play when a file transfer is completed.
.br
Values: <STRING> (sound file absolute path)
.RE
.RE
.PP
.B keys
.RS
Configurations related to user interface interaction.
.br
(Currently supported: Ctrl modified keys, Tab, PAGEUP and PAGEDOWN (case insensitive))
.PP
Keys:
.br
.B next_tab
.RS
Key combination to switch next tab.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B prev_tab
.RS
Key combination to switch previous tab.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B scroll_line_up
.RS
Key combination to scroll one line up.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B scroll_line_down
.RS
Key combination to scroll one line down.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B half_page_up
.RS
Key combination to scroll half page up.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B half_page_down
.RS
Key combination to scroll half page down.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B page_bottom
.RS
Key combination to scroll to page bottom.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B peer_list_up
.RS
Key combination to scroll contacts list up.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.PP
.B peer_list_down
.RS
Key combination to scroll contacts list down.
.br
Values: <STRING> (key combination)
.RE
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Default settings from __DATADIR__/toxic.conf.exmaple:
.PP
// SAMPLE TOXIC CONFIGURATION
.br
// USES LIBCONFIG-ACCEPTED SYNTAX
.br
ui = {
.RS
  // true to enable timestamps, false to disable
.br
  timestamps=true;
.br
  // true to enable terminal alerts on messages, false to disable
.br
  alerts=true;
.br
  // true to use native terminal colours, false to use toxic default colour theme
.br
  native_colors=false;
.br
  // true to enable autologging, false to disable
.br
  autolog=false;
.br
  // 24 or 12 hour time
.br
  time_format=24;
.br
  // true to show you when others are typing a message in 1-on-1 chats
.br
  show_typing_other=true;
.br
  // true to show others when you're typing a message in 1-on-1 chats
.br
  show_typing_self=true;
.br
  // maximum lines for chat window history
.br
  history_size=700;
.RE
};
.PP
audio = {
.RS
  // preferred audio input device; numbers correspond to /lsdev in
.br
  input_device=2;
.br
  // preferred audio output device; numbers correspond to /lsdev out
.br
  output_device=0;
.br
  // default VAD treshold; float (recommended values are around 40)
.br
  VAD_treshold=40.0;
.RE
};
.PP
tox = {
.RS
  // where to store received files
.br
  //download_path="/home/USERNAME/Downloads/";
.RE
};
.PP
// To disable a sound set the path to "silent"
.br
sounds = {
.RS
  error="__DATADIR__/sounds/Error.wav";
.br
  self_log_in="__DATADIR__/sounds/LogIn.wav";
.br
  self_log_out="__DATADIR__/sounds/LogOut.wav";
.br
  user_log_in="__DATADIR__/sounds/ContactLogsIn.wav";
.br
  user_log_out="__DATADIR__/sounds/ContactLogsOut.wav";
.br
  call_incoming="__DATADIR__/sounds/IncomingCall.wav";
.br
  call_outgoing="__DATADIR__/sounds/OutgoingCall.wav";
.br
  generic_message="__DATADIR__/sounds/NewMessage.wav";
.br
  transfer_pending="__DATADIR__/sounds/TransferPending.wav";
.br
  transfer_completed="__DATADIR__/sounds/TransferComplete.wav";
.RE
};
.PP
// Currently supported: Ctrl modified keys, Tab, PAGEUP and PAGEDOWN (case insensitive)
.br
// Note: All printable keys register as input
.br
keys = {
.RS
  next_tab="Ctrl+P";
.br
  prev_tab="Ctrl+O";
.br
  scroll_line_up="PAGEUP";
.br
  scroll_line_down="PAGEDOWN";
.br
  half_page_up="Ctrl+F";
.br
  half_page_down="Ctrl+V";
.br
  page_bottom="Ctrl+H";
.br
  peer_list_up="Ctrl+[";
.br
  peer_list_down="Ctrl+]";
.RE
};
.SH FILES
.IP ~/.config/tox/toxic.conf
Main configuration file.
.IP __DATADIR__/toxic.conf.example
Configuration example.
.SH AUTHORS
JFreegman <JFreegman@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR toxic (1)
.SH LINKS
Project page on github: https://github.com/Tox/toxic
.br
IRC channel on Freenode: chat.freenode.net#tox
