.TH TOXIC 1 "August 2014" "Toxic v__VERSION__" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
Toxic \- CLI client for Tox
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B toxic [\-f
.I data\-file
.B ] [\-x] [\-4] [\-c
.I config\-file
.B ] [\-n
.I nodes\-file
.B ] [\-h]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Toxic is an ncurses-based instant messaging client for Tox which formerly
resided in the Tox core repository, and is now available as a standalone
application.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-4, \-\-ipv4"
Force IPv4 connection
.IP "\-b, \-\-debug
Enable debugging messages (prints to stderr). Redirect output to avoid breaking
the curses interface and better capture messages.
.IP "\-c, \-\-config config\-file"
Use specified
.IP "\-d, \-\-default_locale
Use default locale
.I config\-file
instead of
.IR ~/.config/tox/toxic.conf
.IP "\-f, \-\-file data\-file"
Use specified
.I data\-file
instead of
.IR ~/.config/tox/data
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Show help message
.IP "\-n, \-\-nodes nodes\-file"
Use specified
.I nodes\-file
for DHT bootstrap nodes, instead of
.IR __DATADIR__/DHTnodes
.IP "\-o, \-\-noconnect"
Do not connect to the DHT network
.IP "\-p, \-\-proxy"
Use proxy: Requires [IP] [port]
.IP "\-r, \-\-dnslist"
Use specified DNSservers file
.IP "\-t, \-\-force\-tcp"
Force TCP connection (use this with proxies)
.IP "\-x, \-\-nodata"
Ignore data file
.SH FILES
.IP __DATADIR__/DHTnodes
Default list of DHT bootstrap nodes.
.IP ~/.config/tox/data
Savestate which contains your personal info (nickname, Tox ID,...) and
your contacts list.
.IP ~/.config/tox/toxic.conf
Configuration file. See
.BR toxic.conf (5)
for more details.
.IP __DATADIR__/toxic.conf.example
Configuration example.
.SH BUGS
Unicode characters with a width larger than 1 column may cause 
strange behaviour. Expect more bugs and bad
behaviour: this software is in a pre\-alpha stage.
.SH AUTHORS
JFreegman <JFreegman@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR toxic.conf (5)
.SH LINKS
Project page on github: https://github.com/Tox/toxic
.br
IRC channel on Freenode: chat.freenode.net#tox
